LIAM: Oh jeez, is this already going? This is my
first Periscope and I'm at the end of a long day.
I've been directing some junk. I'm deep in the
bowels of-- hi everybody-- Warner Brothers. I've
been working on a game. It's a particularly dense
one, not your typical grenade, get down. Hi
everybody. Hi. Oh, hi. Hi. "Shout hair, bro?" Hmm.
I barely know how Periscope works. I've jumped
into a few other people's a little bit. I am
pooped, man, every Friday. Oh. Thanks for the hair
compliment and the podcast compliment. I can't
touch your butt through the screen, Joey
Murenhale. Thank you. Yeah, the glasses and the
tired are part of the Friday D&D hangover, which
just means we were up super late in California,
and then I got to get my butt out of bed at five
in the morning. I'm basically up at five every day
with little exception-- all in a day's work,
yeah-- to get my kids to school. I won't stay on
too long, guys, I'm going to stay for like 15
minutes. We'll see if I think of things to say. If
you have questions, throw real questions at me.
"Gollum's on TV behind me while watching." (Gollum
voice) Nasty! (Liam voice) Was I tired last night
on Critical Role? Yeah, I was tired last night. I
am juggling a lot, guys. I won't go into what, but
I juggle a lot. Work, and all that personal crud.
I'm not going to get into it, but that's all still
going on. You know, muddling along. I'm okay. I'm
good. Work is good. The D&D is good. The public
face of my shit is all great. It's just, you know,
family stuff, which all of us-- you, me everybody--
has to deal with. Holy cow, the questions are
filling up my whole face. Are there any questions
in here? "We need to know: are you going to
address--" Nah. I'll just let that play out in the
show. I mean, I really, seriously, have no idea.
None of us really know where we're going on the
show-- hi Meghan-- what direction. I know Matt has
got places where we could go, but it's not like we
had a meeting and said, "Okay, we're going to go
and explore Grog's background." Which I hope we
do. We really don't know where we're going. I
don't know if I'm getting it on with Gilmore. I
don't know. I don't know any of that. We just make
it up as we go along. "What's working for Blizzard
"like?" Yeah, I'm going to start answering some
questions. Working for Blizzard's great. Spin
around. I have been working for Blizzard for a
decade. To get asked to direct and be part of the
family that way is, I don't know, it was a
blessing. They invited me down to the studio. I've
worked on the game for almost a decade and to go
the studio for the first time ever and see-- not
the studio, Blizzard, south of us-- to see all the
statues and the stuff on the walls and the art and
just everything that they work on. It's no wonder
why they're as successful as they are because of
the attention and the love and the care. Oh,
somebody said, single word, "Fuck." Let me see.
"Order: 1886 as Finley." Yeah, thank you that was
fun to do. These are moving fast. "I grew up
"Blizzard thanks to my bird father." I don't know
what that means. "Come out to Melbourne Comic
"Con!" We would love to. The way that all works, I
think you've heard this before-- hey, AC_Mickey--
is you guys tell the convention that you're
interested in having us at the convention. If
enough of you, in a friendly way, say, "We need
Sam Riegel in Australia!" then they'll ask. Tiger,
"Top three D&D classes." What are the three that I
think are the best? Or my favorite? I don't know.
I like rogues in all kinds of games. I like magic
users. I don't know. I think if Vax ever kicks the
bucket, and by the way, I see a lot. Some guys are
saying that Vax'ildan, or me, or both of us,
whatever that means, has a death wish. I don't. I
hope he never dies. I love playing him. I think if
he ever does get flattened, then I'll probably do
something magicky, but I don't know. I did see
Star Wars and enjoyed it because it was really
well made. God, I'm tired. "Liam, what would you
"hope to accomplish if Matt does your backstory
like he did Percy?" The twins have a sad-sack
story, but I don't feel like it's a special story.
They're just a couple of unwanted kids. They're
not-- Their mother's gone. I don't think she's
squirrelled away somewhere, secretly going to pop
up. I think she's gone. We'll see. Their father is
not royalty. He's got a good position. They're
just a couple of unwanted kids. They're not
princes, they're not royalty, they have no special
future. I think I've always liked that. They're
just a couple of deadenders. "You had a blue thing
on your profile. Could you tell me--" I lost it.
It's gone. Let's see. "Any more All Work No Play?"
Yeah, the podcast is not dead. It has slowed down.
When Sam and I started that, we were really busy,
and now we're ridiculously busy. "What--" Let me
see. Dub a dub a dub a. I can't stop talking.
Isn't that deal? You have to keep saying stuff.
"We need an adventures in babysitting arc with
"your half-sister." You have just dated yourself,
my friend. I know what that means, but I'm pretty
sure half the audience doesn't. What else? "Vox
Machina's ages?" I don't know everybody's ages. I
think what Laura and I have said for the twins is
they're 27. I don't know that I am popular.
Someone's asking me why I'm so popular. I was
passed over in Spin the Bottle when I was 12, so I
never really felt like the popular kid. I'm just
still the same geek I've always been. GMing for
the kids is good. My son loves it. He is totally
addicted. We don't get to play that much because
it takes a lot of planning. I don't know how Matt
does it for a nuanced, complicated way for a bunch
of adults and thousands of people. Just finding
the time to prepare for three nine year olds I
find challenging. They love it. My daughter,
Romper Stomper, is starting to sniff around about
it. I've started talking to her about the druid
that she wants to make named Oak. My son has a
couple characters, but his main one that he plays
is also a druid. Not my influence, that's just
what they both gravitated towards. The ongoing
campaign that my son does, he plays a half-elven
druid, and then his two friends are both
dragonborns. He's got a big, bulky, red dragonborn
who is played by his red headed friend from
school. The other one is a bronze dragonborn
rogue. We've only played four games. Plus for my
son's birthday, we did a big extravaganza blowout,
so I guess five games total. "How do you feel
about being a geek or nerd being cool now?" It's
good because it means we have an easier time.
"What's it been like introducing your kids to nerd
"stuff you love? Lord of the Rings especially."
That's great. I'm rereading The Hobbit with my son
at bedtime. It's our fourth go-through of the
book. He asked for it this time. Obviously, I
introduced it to him, and I suggested it a second
time. The third and fourth time, he asked for it.
"What did you voice Gollum in?" I've done Gollum
in two or three or four games at this point, the
main one being Shadow of Mordor, which came out a
couple of years ago. I did the voice, but I also
did the performance capture for it, too. I put on
the monkey suit with the nubblies all over it,
crawled around and bruised my knees up for glory.
I've been in love with The Hobbit since I was, I
don't know, 12 or 13. Really, actually, the
animated film of The Hobbit a little bit
contributed to me getting into acting. Gollum in
that is very different than the Gollum we know
from the movies today. I started aping and
mirroring that Gollum, which led me to into doing
drama in high school. So to get put on the Sméagol
suit was a big deal for me. Very big deal for me.
"Favorite character to voice?" I don't have one.
Gollum is one of them, I've always loved doing
Gaara. (Gaara voice) He's easier to do now that
he's chilled out. (Liam voice) He used to be a
rage monkey, but now he's calm. I love
Nightcrawler. What else? Illidan is always fun to
do. Let's see. I want to stay for another five
minutes, guy. Everyone's asking me about a blue
thing in my profile. I don't know what you guys
mean. "Any advice for aspiring voice actors?" Just
study acting, guys. You can specialize later, but
you can't make the choice to specialize if you're
not acting in general. So find community theaters
in your neighborhood, or see if your community
college or high school has drama clubs and start
doing it. Then if you feel like you enjoy it or
have a knack for it, you can then figure out where
to go from there. You basically have to start.
Let's see. Dub a dub a. I haven't done musical
theater. I love musical theater, but I haven't
done it since high school. It's like the Olympics
for me; it's people doing things I can't do.
(Irish accent) "Can you give me your best Irish
accent?" I'm not exactly sure what you want me to
say. What could I do? Oh, I'll tell you a joke.
How about a joke, guys? Seamus is walking through
fields of Ireland with his son, Declan. He points
off into the distance and says, "Declan." "Yeah,
"Da?" "Do you see that bridge over there?" "I do,
Da!" "I spent two weeks of me life working on that
"bridge. I put my blood, sweat, and tears into it.
Do they call me Seamus the Bridge Builder? No."
They walk on for a while. Seamus points out and
says, "Declan? Do you see that church over there?"
"I do, Da!" "That church took me three months to
build. I did it meself. I put every ounce of blood
"and sweat and love and care into it. Months,
Declan! Do they call me Seamus the Church Builder?
No. But you fuck one fucking goat!" (Liam voice)
Joke's over. I missed that one. "Favorite
Shakespeare play?" Oh, that's hard. I like Hamlet.
I like Julius Caesar. I like Twelfth Night a lot.
I played Juliet in a four man version of Romeo and
Juliet, which is one of my favorite roles that
I've ever played. I'd love to do theater. I've
talked about this before. There's not a ton-- it's
harder to make a living just in the theater alone,
and I dug around in theater for many years. But
once I started having a family and having to buy
diapers, put food on the table and stuff, I
gravitated towards all of this stuff, which was
vomiting itself at me. That's no small potatoes.
I'm very happy about it. You're about to graduate
from Tisch, really scared about your future. "Did
"it happen to you? Any advice?" Yes. I graduated
from Tisch, so hi, dude. I don't know. Nobody
knows what they're doing. No adult, no kid, no one
knows what they're doing. I don't know how I got
here. I'm one of the few actors-- People ask me
how to get into voice acting. I honestly don't
know. Really all you can do it study to be an
actor and look for opportunities, move to where
the work is, and keep at it. Good luck, though!
Tisch does give you a good education. New York
City is a good place to cut your teeth. I'm going
to pick-- I got to hit the road-- I'll pick five
questions and give shorter answers. Let me see.
Yes, my degree was in acting. I went to New York
University, Tisch School of the Arts to study
acting. Foolishly squeezed it all into three years
because I thought I had to get out there. Started
working pretty immediately once I got out, so that
was good. I'm just looking for a question to pick.
Humida humida humida. Come on, throw something at
me. Let me see. "Have you other played RPGs other
than D&D?" I'm going to assume you mean tabletop
because obviously when I have time, I play video
games. I'm playing Fallout now. I have a big game
collection that I don't get to play that much.
I've been a gamer for 15 years or longer, probably
longer. Yeah, because I had Atari and all that. I
assume you're asking me about tabletop, so not
since high school. When I was in high school, I
did play Advanced Dungeons & Dragons. I played--
really, I just read. I think just read and made
characters for Rifts, which is a big, hodge-podge,
sci fi-magic amalgam. Someone led me through
Shadowrun for one game. I barely remember it. I
did Cyberpunk for one summer. My cousin in upstate
New York ran a game and I played a lady rock and
roll star. My favorite alcoholic beverage is
probably Irish whiskey. When I was in Ireland, my
favorite thing to get was Bushmills whiskey served
as a hot toddy and they called it a Hot Bush which
was just heated whiskey with sugar and a lemon in
it and cloves. Coming in from the rain and the
cold, it was the best. No, no scotch for me.
Occasionally, if someone gives it to me. I feel
like I'm connecting to my Irish roots with the
whiskey. Last question. I'm going to read a couple
and go with it. Let me see here. Favorite Critical
Role session. What was my favorite Critical Role
session? My favorite moments, I mean, we've been
doing it for over a hundred hours. Oh boy.
Favorite Critical Role moments. I mean, I loved
everything that happened with the Briarwoods when
I stepped into the shit and getting away. And
biting it. Spilling all the beans on the table
because I thought that was probably my only chance
to do it. So that was great. I'm a big Scanlan
fan, so I love-- highlight is Sam, letting Sam
bust me up week after week. Let me see. The
beholder fight was great. Oh! But better than the
beholder fight for me was us sneaking in and
taking out the illithid. That was pretty great. I
also loved, back in that arc, the vote whether or
not to go down into that chasm, and winning the
vote, and Vex and Keyleth flipping us the birds
and leaving anyway. I thought that was a great
moment. I get a lot of messages going like, "Oh!
"Suck it! You totally ate it there! Why did you do
that?! You almost died! That was the wrong move!"
That are some of my favorite moments on the show.
Otherwise, it'd just be an on-rails shooter in an
arcade. I love when things go wrong. I think,
really, my favorite moments are when the shit hits
the fan and we have to figure it out. Yep. All
right. I hope that was okay. I probably won't do
this too much because I'm busy, but I'll do it
once in a while. So I hope that was fun. Thanks
for coming, guys. Have a good weekend, and I will
see you all next week. All right. Signing off. If
I can figure out how to sign off. How do you turn
it off? Do I just force quit?